题目: Week 14
发布人: 李林涛
发布时间: 2022-05-23 22:56

内容: The recording of today’s class is available at: https://cloud.tsinghua.edu.cn/f/e2de91c55de44734be3b/
Today we mainly talked about CSMA/CA, multiplexing, switch, and route. CSMA/CA is a random-access protocol. In CSMA/CA, collisions are avoided through the use of three strategies: the interframe space, contention window, and acknowledgments. Multiplexing is the set of techniques that allow the simultaneous transmission of multiple signals across a single data link. Two main multiplexing methods we learned is the time-division multiplexing (TDM) and frequency-division multiplexing (FDM). Last week we learned about multiple-access protocols, which also conduct resource allocation for communication. The difference between multiple access and multiplexing can be summarized as
1. Multiple access refers to the remote sharing of a communication channel such as a satellite or radio channel by users in highly dispersed locations. On the other hand, multiplexing refers to the sharing of a channel such as a telephone channel by users confined to a local site.
2. In a multiplexed system, user requirements are ordinarily fixed. In contrast, in a multiple-access system user requirements can change dynamically with time, in which case provisions are necessary for dynamic channel allocation.
Switches are devices capable of creating temporary connections between two or more devices linked to the switch. Switches help us to solve the problem of how to connect multiple devices to make communication possible. Besides, we also introduced routing algorithms, including distance-vector and link-state algorithms. For the routing protocols, we can divide them into two kinds: intra-AS and inter-AS protocols. We mainly talked about the Border Gateway Protocol, which belongs to inter-AS protocols. BGP is the protocol that glues the thousands of ISPs in the Internet together.
 
Reminder: Problem set 6 is released. The deadline is this Sunday. 
 
Note that, the course in week 16 is a revision. Teachers will lead you to review the lessons and answer your questions.
